# Domain 4: Billing and Pricing
# (4A: Accounts, Billing, Pricing, and Support Tiers)

## Types of Pricing
  * ### Pay-as-you-Go
    * Easily adapts to business needs.
    * Adaption is based on needs, not forecasts.
    * Improved responsiveness to change.
    * Reduces risk of overpositioning of missing capacity.
  * ### Save when you Reserve
    * Invest in reserved capacity for 75% discount over the pay-as-you-go model.
    * The more you pay upfront, the greater the discount.   
  * ### Pay Less by Using More
    * Pay less using volume based discounts.
    * Tiered pricing means the more you use, the lower the unit pricing.

 ## EC2 Pricing Models
  * ### On-Demand
    * Standard rate, no discount.
    * Good for short-term testing and unpredictable workloads.
  * ### Reserved Instance (RI)
    * Requires 1-3 year commitment.
    * Up to 75% discount
    * Good for steady-state, predictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
  * ### Spot Instances
    * Bid for instances.
    * Up to 90% discount.
    * Can be interrupted and terminated at any time (2 minute warning provided by AWS).
    * Good for workloads with flexible start/stop times.
  * ### Dedicated Instances
    * Dedicated hosts with dedicated instances just for you (physical and virtual isolation).
    * You do not have insight or telemetry on core sockets or host affinity of the underlying hardware.
    * Billed per instance.
  * ### Dedicated Hosts
    * Underlying host hardware reserved jsut for you.
    * Gain telemetry on underlying hardware layer including sockets and host affinity.
    * Pay per host - most expensive option.
  * ### Savngs Plans
    * Commitment to a consistent amount of usage (EC2 + Fargate + Lambda).
    * 1-3 year commitment.
    * Pay be the hour.

## S3 Pricing
  * ### Storage Class
    * Priced by storage class (i.e., standard vs. IA vs. Glacier).
  * ### Storage Quantity
    * Priced by amount of data volume stored in your buckets (charge per GB).
  * ### Number of Requests
    * The number and type of requests to move between storag classes including **Lifecycle Transition Requests** where objects are automatically moved to different tiers based on usage/activity.
  * ### Data Transfer
    * Data transferred out of an S3 **Region** is billed.

         
             
   
